Project Beer Bottle
2008 Chris Johnson

"No, no, it's just a beer bottle." -Jerry Fletcher

This project was conceived to protect all sensitive information on a hard
drive, with a twist that appeals to the paranoiac in all of us.

Sensitive information comes in myriad forms, many one might never think
specifically to protect. Browser caches, saved emails, photos, and videos of
you singing that never quite made it to YouTube are just a few things that
would tell people more about you than you would want them to know. What's more,
even deleting these files would not stop a sufficiently determined individual.

Unsuprisingly, many people have taken to encrypting their hard drives. Several
Linux distributions even present this as an option during install. Of course,
use of this feature is frequently out of concern for a laptop thief, rather
than a well-resourced forensic investigator, but, done properly, it can work
just as well for either.

As even Ubuntu allows encrypted installation, we clearly must be offering
something a little different. It is this: on an unencrypted partition, one
leaves a basic install. An encrypted partition is then overlaid with unionfs
(actually aufs, as unionfs produces unsightly core dumps), and all changes made
to the system are placed on the encrypted drive. The boot process is then
rigged to allow a duress password to nuke all of the data in the encrypted
drive.

To demonstrate the advantages of this setup, we present three scenarios:

Your mother wishes to use your computer. Since you set up your boot scripts to
allow a user who cannot enter the password to use the base system overlaid with
tmpfs, she has a usable system with no possibility of discovering your unsavory
browsing habits or deleting your home directory.

A thief steals your laptop. When he connects it to the wireless at a local
coffee shop, it calls home as he uses it, without ever exposing your personal
data to a potential identity thief or blackmailer.

A customs officer insists that you turn on your computer and allow him to
search for whatever customs officers feel entitled to search for. Upon reaching
the password prompt for your encrypted device, he demands that you enter a
password. You enter your duress password, a fresh install of Ubuntu appears and
there is no longer anything there to find. Furthermore, it is impossible to
prove that there was ever anything else there.

Of course, this last scenario would never happen in real life, but, let's face
it: duress passwords are neat.

So what's up with the name? In the movie Conspiracy Theory, Jerry balances a
beer bottle on his door handle, so that it crashes noisily when someone tries
to jiggle his doorknob. This signals for him to destroy everything in his
apartment. We felt thermite might be a suspicious way to hide the data, so we
settled for mathematically provable infeasiblity.


CREDITS
At best, I can only take credit for pushing this project forward (and a few of
the more brilliant ideas). A lot of the thinking and a little of the coding
were done by the following people:
Brady Deetz
James Johnson
Austin Roberts

Also, most of the initial implementation was done while on the clock at True
Digital Security of Tulsa, OK.
